I wonder how he's going to feel when my theory of fiction comes up.
In which I...
Well, let's say my esteem for Mr. Rushdie's work and the type of work he does is minimal.
Well, that's another way of putting it.
I wrote a practitioner's theory of fiction, which is now the Hudson Review.
Joe Epstein said it was too specialized for a man and scholar, and I think he's probably right.
I don't know if I'm pronouncing his name correctly.
Something like that.
I've heard it three or four ways, so any way you like is the way to pronounce it.
Well, I've read his books on fiction.
I tried to read The Unbearable Wetness of Being, but frankly, I found the title too long.
It's just unbearable.
It's like the night I allowed my wife to cite many, many ballgames to talk me into going to see Ivan the Terrible.
I don't know whether... It was Ivan the Interminable.
Did you ever see the one that was based on Les Miserables?
Yes, I did.
You know what the problem with those things is?
It's Andrew Lloyd Webber.
Not that he wrote that one.
Lloyd Webber was the inventor of the theory that it only takes one song to make a musical.
He only has one.
There's Memories and Cats and the Music of the Night and the Phantom of the Opera.
Yes.
Tom, who is it?
Tom, don't pretend you put it in.
Can you imagine what the liability insurance is on that chandelier?
something like $480 to see that musical on Broadway.
I had become obsessed.
It was the really useful theater company.
And Greg Gowrie, my friend, was still on the board.
I don't think he was chairman anymore.
And he assured me tickets would be waiting in New York.
So when I got to New York, I asked for the tickets and gave my name.
And this guy in there, classic New Yorker, perfect New Yorker, gives me the fisheye and says, oh,
That's New York.
He'd already given it to a friend of his.
That's right.
So by then, as I say, it had become a fetish with me.
I'd been to New York three or four times, and I wanted to see that.
It had nothing to do with the merits of the case.
I just wanted to see it.
I think I paid $480 to the concierge of the standholder.
That's a lot of money.
I was a fool.
That's a stupid thing to do.
Don't get obsessed.
Anyway, let's start a little bit.
Let's get some nice quotes.
And if it seems like we're covering old ground... We are.
You got something to show me?
I've got the usual standard press buyout.
I like that.
It saves everybody a lot of...
Well, I mean, you know, quotes about it.
I went, oh, you've got a hint of madness.
Wow.
This is the first.
A first to me.
I have never before brought the interviewer's book in for him to find.
Well, it's true.
Absolutely true.
And don't lose my place here.
As I told you, I just started the book when you would call.
I'm going to do it on the half-title.
You should.
Yep.
There's various protocols on that.
Good.
Well, this is one for the agents.
It's the first time it's ever happened.
Can you imagine the number of interviews I've had?
You're the first interviewer I've had in 25 years.
25 years ago, next February.
25 years is the first time it's ever happened here or in England or in Germany or in France, anywhere.
Usually they give up.
You write a book.
You don't continue to do what I do.
But I like it.
Of course you do.
It's like me missing trials.
That's why I like teaching so much.
You're not always perfect.
Yes, I am.
I love having a deadline.
I love the immediacy of the byline.
Byline of hearing from people in Eugene, Oregon.
I like my story.
One of my biggest thrills was the B-52 from the Strategic Air Command ran into trouble.
over Greenland or someplace.
I'm one of those, you know, they were always on patrol.
And it was going to land at Pease Air Force Base, and there was a question of a landing gear that would deploy, and there was an H-Bomber board.
And I had gone home from the night shift at 8.30.
My parents were out in Seattle, at the National Education Association, I imagine.
And after about four or five hours sleep, I got a call from 8.30 Boston.
They wanted a man up there.
and I had Courtesy of the Rogue, and I had a TR4 Triumph.
I was told to put my flashes on, and the cops had my license number, and they were going to let me through.
I had large platinum-pointed plugs, and I was about 23 years old, and I was like a kid in the candy store.
And the next morning, when my parents got up in Seattle and got the newspaper,
I led the paper with that story out of P's Air Force Base.
It was great.
Nothing like it.
It's adrenaline.
It's a kick.
Yes, it is.
It's adrenaline.
It's a kick in the ass.
It's wonderful.
I drove to New York last week on a Wednesday morning, drove down a few Mario games, came back, transcribed a tape, did the thing on deadline, and beat everybody.
Okay.
Oh, it's a natural.
What do you got, an auto tax, an auto-vailing tax?
Yeah, exactly.
Those things are made for guys of our generation.
Exactly.
They are made for it.
Yeah, it's wonderful.
I couldn't do it.
I sent it.
Matt Buckley, you must know Matt.
I'm going to see him in a couple of weeks.
So am I. You going to that thing?
I am, yeah.
Well, I'll see you there.
Oh, all right, yeah.
I'm going to try and write about it for some reason.
Well, I think you should.
Anyway, it's really amazing.
Yeah, obviously it doesn't intimidate him.
No, this is a must.
This is a command for pharmacy.
And Rick Lehman was saying, you don't have to do that.
I said, you do have to do this.
This guy has been a sedulous promoter of me and my work for 25 years.
Matt is?
Yeah.
Something about that.
I am interested in that.
Matt spotted me before Eddie Coyle was officially published.
Really?
Yeah.
He gets galleys.
And he's a collector, he's an assassin.
Yes, sure he is.
I was surprised not to find his name in your index.
No, no, he's here.
He wasn't in the index, I thought.
He's not in the index, but he's in the video.
Okay.
And when I read it to him in New York, he said, he knew me.
I'm excited.
He said, I like your book.
I have your book, and I'm impressed.
And I said, I have all of your books.
And I said, not only am I impressed, I said, but I used them.
His new Hemingway book, Hemingway and Perkins, is delightful.
I haven't seen it in public.
Well, who's published?
Scrivener.
I don't have it.
Do you have it on me?
I have the Vangelis because I plugged it.
Oh, Scrivener.
It's a wonderful book.
The only thing that really counts.
I think that's the book.
In time to lose it on?
It's Letters Between Max Perkins and Ernest Hennig.
It's a wonderful book, too.
For some reason or another.
My first editor was Ash Green.
who was probably CIA when he was theoretically Naval Intelligence.
And I used it.
I'll call my stuff on the... See, I'm only up to Lord Chesterfield's letters.
You know, I thought a first of that.
Lord Chesterfield's letters.
I don't have to...
But I mean, the first is a great deal.
I mean, yeah.
I'm sorry, I'm jumping away.
No, that's quite all right.
dianoya is how novels get written without dianoya there is no novel it's 25 years i think it should be i think it's probably the biggest news about anything to do with it at this point 25 years ago eddie quill came out and it's never been out of print is that is that something for you to bear i mean is that a weight no
I know we've talked about this before.
You're saying that's my ticket of admission.
Without Eddie Coyle, you've got him talking to me.
Without Eddie Coyle, I'm not teaching at Boston University.
I can say today, and I do say today, Eddie Coyle, my editor said it first, and I think he probably expected me to live in the mouth of my gun there, but I did.
No such thing.
Eddie Coyle is a three-finger exercise compared to what I'm doing now.
But without that dead gangsta, nobody prints my stuff.
That was my key to the mission.
I think you said to me before, with Joe Heller, and I've asked Joe Heller this.
He said 22.
He feels like it was a millstone, I know.
It's also a good excuse for not doing any work.
I led in my Puzo piece.
They were buddies back in the 50s.
I didn't realize... I was that old.
I was in World War II.
I didn't realize I was old.
I flew airplanes in World War II.
I know it.
Now that you say it, of course it has to be.
Let me finish this.
Talk a little bit about... Do you feel, however, that you have to... I mean, if it's actually to try and... Well, I've surpassed any film.
I know, but in terms of perception of the audience, they always... Thankfully, thankfully, they don't say it anymore.
They don't say by the author of the friendship.
But they make it pretty clear that's who I am, and they should.
They should, but at least I'm pleased that they don't put it on the friendship.
Well, there was a story in the Boston Globe about a lawyer of Bingham Data.
I can't remember his last name.
His first name is Sabin, S-A-B-I-N.
And he's published an author.
And the article noted, of course, that he is not the first Boston lawyer to find time to write a novel while practicing law.
And it listed Joan Lukey.
and barry reed carried me and didn't even well was it joe cline that's why i knew he was primary i think it was joe cline i've forgotten now whose name was on but i well i it was in the line in the bank with banks too that's all the analogy i didn't even know he did that much he did that much but anyway he conned me in the foreground and i've never spoken to an answer uh
I know the explanation for my exclusion from the article.
It's probably the same reason for Richard Henry Dana's exclusion.
The kid never heard of us.
He was two when Eddie Coyle came out.
If born, that's the reason.
I was driving in there.
I've got a 15-year-old daughter.
Who are you doing today, Dad?
I said, the friends of Eddie Coyle?
Why should a 15-year-old know that?
I can't think of a single reason.
Unless he watches too much television.
I ran that movie about three times a week, a year ago.
The only thing that's really dogged my career about Eddie Quirrell is the fact that Christopher Landon said I was a prime novelist.
And that was really, he was such an asshole.
He gave me a wonderful review, and he did not eat anything like that.
Did he?
Nobody reviewed it?
None of the daily times.
That's why you don't get a daily life.
You get one or the other now.
Really?
Ever since the woman who just left.
Becky Sinkler.
That's right.
She was the one who put it in the policy.
If you get a review on a Sunday, you don't get it in the daily.
Really?
Oh, okay.
Well, then I don't feel so bad.
No, you get the same evil treatment that everybody else gets.
I should think you would be.
I am, too.
Alan Peaker.
I mean, Alan was... Chris is out of there in his first book.
I've interviewed Chris.
His father is in the book.
I think it's policy.
It's not his doing.
So then I feel better.
I feel better.
Usually you're right when you think somebody's stuck a knife in your back in the publishing.
I've done a lot of stuff.
In gratitude.
Oh.
That's what I say, I'm an old boy, but I do want the 20 bucks.
This is funny.
I'm having so much fun with this thing.
That's the whole idea, but we're not going to make any money.
We might as well have a few laughs.
You know, one of our interviews, and it's a great... Great.
I have a deed that says the city is mine.
Yeah, just about.
These are my words.
Yeah, there have been others who have kind of encroached.
I mean, in Snipernet, he had Bob Parker, he had some war in that.
How do you feel about that?
Yeah, trust me.
Well, and I will put in this piece.
I get to be a Dutch lawyer.
I've asked him, who have you been influenced by?
He's been very generous to me.
And he makes it a point.
He doesn't know I know you or anything like that.
He says, that was a guy right here in Boston.
And he said, very generous.
In fact, I quoted that in a piece.
He said it several times.
I learned from him.
He doesn't learn from me.
We were in Toronto for that Avisar thing.
I think it was in 91.
And when we were old in, we went to the registration center.
And they asked me if there was anybody on the roster I wanted to meet.
And I said, yes, Elmore Leonard.
Because I tried to connect with him when I'd been on tour and going through Detroit.
And he had been in Montgomery, Alabama on tour.
And when he came through Boston, I was in New York or something.
And we just kept missing each other like trips in the night.
And I said, yes, Elmore Leonard.
And the one at the desk said, isn't that interesting?
Well, he asked him.
He said, George Higgins.
Elmore and I, we immediately were
They took us as an entry in a horse race.
One was A and the other was B. We had to go everywhere together.
We worked our asses off.
And Loretta and his then wife went around Toronto having fun.
And then, of course, he'd get rid of the wife.
Loretta said she was a bit quarrelous, though, so I imagine she talked herself out of her job.
You know, I've been criticized for writing this.
I don't.
Don't take it to her.
They love her.
I mean, I do want these signings.
Most people don't know.
I do want it this way, but most people don't know that if they don't have it personalized, it's worth more money.
I have to be the authority, and I disagree.
You do?
Yeah.
Well, that's what I've always been told.
I'm not sure I'm going to continue to say it, because a lot of people mail me books, and I don't feel like writing funny notes down there.
No, no, no.
Actually, what would you rather... Oh, a letter from somebody or an autograph?
A letter.
A letter, because it says something.
Yes, of course.
I have a letter from Graham Green.
Well, that's... What are you thinking?
Would you get more money for the letter or the autograph?
I would get more money for the first letter I had from Graham Green, which was stolen by the framers.
I took it to be framed, and they said,
now we've got no record of it this is also known as an association description yes i know that but i got that from your book already
It goes out of there.
I don't know.
John O'Hara books.
The autographs.
And especially we're on the occasion of a first revoke for each of us.
Oh, really?
What's that?
The interviewer describes a book for the interviewer?
Is this something?
If somebody's going to say a hundred years from now, who has his best brain?
Well, actually, this is his book, so it's kind of, you know, it could make some more valuable.
I'll sell it this afternoon.
You might, yes.
Robert Montgomery Scott was cleaning out the ancestral estate after his mother was trodden to death by her donkeys.
And, among other things, he cleaned out their library, and they had a number of inscribed volumes from John O'Hara.
And one of them has a long personal address in it, and he gave it to me, because of my great admiration for O'Hara's work.
It happens to me now, and I don't admire it very much, but it's O'Hara's story.
You'll do mine at the end.
Yes, I will.
Give me a comment on the lawyers who write.
I mean, you basically pioneered this whole thing.
I didn't though.
I really didn't.
Michael Montaigne was a lawyer.
The number of lawyers who've gone straight as writers is legion.
We used to call ourselves, we still do, the last learned profession.
And there was a time, I think, when that was true.
It isn't now.
Law schools have become cash cows.
When I became a member of the Massachusetts Barrett, I was one of 8,000.
This room, by the way, is full of trowel oils.
That's where I have my Bruce 2 on.
I'm entitled to coloration.
I don't want a shark bite.
I'm entitled to professional courtesy.
Well, I would say this.
And unfortunately, many do.
And you would agree with me?
Oh, yes, I do.
There are now 55,000 lawyers in Massachusetts.
There are 600,000 fewer people in Massachusetts.
So I was listening to a friend of mine complain with good reason about the legal service he had done subjectively for his good money.
And when he got through, I said, now look, citing those figures, 8,000 against 55,000, it stands to reason that when you multiply the members of the profession by seven, you're going to get a large number of assholes.
There's only so many people intelligent available for any line of work.
And we've got too many people at ours, and that means there has to be a lot of jerks.
And they'll do anything.
You don't mind my jumping around?
No, I prefer it.
I always think these things are going to betray me.
They broke down on me and said, will you?
I always usually carry two, and you told me that.
Fortunately, I was taking notes.
Studs Terkel told me that he sees all thumbs, and he told me the interviews he's lost.
He's all bums.
Well, I just quit for no reason at all.
Anyway, do you like the arc of your career?
How many books?
27, 27, 28.
So really it's better than one a year.
Yeah.
There were two years when I did not, well one year really.
Two years when I was unable to drive because I was recovering from an addiction and they tell you that the physiological difficulty of quitting smoking
is hideous, and it was.
That's why I never managed the many other times I tried to stop.
And I had to go to bed.
I had a witness when I was in the table, a prosecutor's office, who was on methadone.
We weren't giving him enough, apparently.
And he went into withdrawal.
And his agony, his physical agony, lasted longer than mine did.
I think he was killed.
in terrible shape for about 10 or 11 days.
I went into, I started getting depressed and agitated and tremulous and irritated.
And the 10th day, I figured that's when you use up the nicotine and your soft tissue.
And I was on the patch.
The patch was giving me approximately 40% of the nicotine I've been accustomed to getting for 15 hours.
And the second day, I was even worse and I was unable to perform sequential reasoning.
And the third day, I had to go to bed.
because I was getting the children.
No question about it, it was withdrawal.
It's a wonderful drug.
And then I got over it, and I got false confidence.
But I had trouble, terrible trouble with sequential reasoning for the next year and a half.
When was this?
I started on March 6 of 92, and I don't think I really regained form until late in the fall of 94.
It was only intermittent.
I was writing during that period, but if I had been writing... You were publishing?
No, I wasn't.
The book that was published had been written before I did that, and then there was a year I missed because I didn't have another one ready to go.
Then when I began... No, no, I'd missed another year.
Choice of Enemies was supposed to come out in 83, but cannot fumble the ball, so it came out in 84.
No, that's the first time that's ever happened to me.
I could have done 90-word stories, a graph and a half, as we used to call it, for the AP, but as far as writing a chapter, or even a short story, I couldn't keep my attention focused on that.
And I was also...
that we dejected, was not mildly depressed.
And that was the hardest part because nobody predicted that for me.
I didn't know I should expect that.
Since then, I think I've been able to be of some assistance to other addicts who have been trying to get out of this.
I think in retrospect, I would have stayed on the patch forever.
I'm just delighted that you're coming down to Columbia.
I really am.
Well, I'm delighted because Rick is... I'm going to write a story about it from this new magazine.
I'm going to write a book.
Biblio, what's it say?
Oh.
And I tell...
I tried to pitch it to Smithsonian and they said that it's a very interesting story.
There's nothing to take pictures of.
I would say try the geographic.
They pay so much.
I want to go to Sally Eagle.
We'll talk about that.
This is kind of the way they put a Jerry Kennedy novel.
I have an insistent upon it.
Let's talk about that.
Well, the reason is that of all the characters that I've written about, and this is from the very first book, it's not because there have been four books about it.
From the very first book, he provoked the most male of any character I've ever written about.
As you might expect, mostly from lawyers and judges.
And most of them imagine that I have somehow
intruded into their dreams and lives, and I know what they're doing, and therefore Jerry Kennedy is based on that.
I would say probably now the total of letters I've gotten, I mean, I don't mean to sound like a bow, of course not, but I bet in the course of 16 years since Kennedy for the Transfers appeared, I've probably gotten about 30 letters from people who are convinced that I've
I've stolen part of their lives.
That's a lot.
Yeah, it is.
When I wrote The Digger's Game, I was prosecuted, when I published The Digger's Game, by then I was prosecuting a big, fat Irish guy who ran a saloon.
I had him on stolen checks.
He was cashing on a construction company.
A lot of money.
His brother was a Jesuit priest, and he was convinced that he was the digger.
And so between the time he pleaded guilty and the time he was going to be sentenced, he brought The Digger's Game and two copies for me to autograph it.
And he was absolutely crestfallen when I told him he was not the victim.
But he wasn't.
So you have to be careful how you let people down.
There was one judge down in Missouri who became fixated on the idea.
He was Jerry Kennedy.
And then the motive began to appear.
It seems he was writing a novel.
And he was having a few problems with it.
And he went and I said, no.
He pronounced himself upset.
This was kind of a protractive correspondence.
How do they figure you know their lives, anyway?
Well, they think that they're so interesting.
It must be where I got all those interesting stories.
I have to say, a way that Bob Parker says, he doesn't know the mail from people who send ideas.
Well, you don't know until you open it, whether it's ideas.
That looks good.
I'd like some of that.
Not the pepper.
All right.
You want that one, sir?
I'd like a salad as well.
Oh, excuse me.
I forgot I was having meat.
It makes a lot of difference.
I'm a purist.
Well, anyway, this judge, the judge said he was milked.
And he thought the least I could do was assist him since we have brothers in the law.
And I wrote back and said that he could console himself by giving out longer sentences and quotes and saying that I wrote them.
And he didn't get it.
Recently, I had a letter from a lawyer in Boston, and he explained that he has always wanted to write novels, and so he'd like two or three hours of my time, and he'll buy the beers.
To get back to Eddie Coyle, you're an old newspaper man.
Do you have any doubts that the lead draft of your own business is going to say?
No, I don't.
We were out sailing one day with my friend Mike Mullen, who was the best tort lawyer in the Northeast, and that's a consensus, not an arrogation.
And he said, I hope we don't fuck him.
Because if we do, the obituary is going to say, noted author died, and I'll have your neighbor the lead, and three paragraphs down, I'll say, trial attorney also drops.
Also missing.
I don't care if they do say that.
Of course, I won't care anyway.
Probably by then they'll say long-time welfare recipient.
You certainly, it goes right to the question of the answer of your career and also the body of work as a corpus.
Do you see it as a chronological thing?
And you also said that, you know, that he was a three-finger exercise compared to the work that you're doing.
Clearly, you, in your mind, do you see it?
I think I've gone beyond that for a long way.
I would agree with that myself.
I think your narrative is...
Well, I allow myself more, but I still... I still try to keep out of the book as much as I can.
I don't think the author belongs in the story.
Henry James agrees with me.
Milan Kundera doesn't.
I'm with Henry on this one.
Ian Forster agrees with me.
I think we've got a quorum.
I don't like...
Interventionism by the author, one thing is so easy.
You exonerate yourself from trying to achieve the willing suspension of disbelief by saying, I'm just going to put my foot in this thing anytime I choose.
I say as a reader, if you dare me to finish your book, I won't.
That's my deal.
You keep your claws off these people.
If these characters are real, they don't need any help from you.
And if they do need help from you, I'm not going to read about it.
So, within limitations, I am allowing myself now more narrative freedom, telling rather than showing.
But by and large, the Kennedy book's an exception because I've adopted an alter ego now.
Anything he says goes.
By and large, now I am, I'd say starting with Choice of Enemies, that's when the greater complexity really began to multiply.
Choice of Enemies is a very complicated book, and I remain to this day extremely disappointed by the reception that it didn't get.
Yeah, it was based on the life of John Forrest Thompson.
It's the only one of my novels I ever faced on a formerly living character.
I was really proud of him, and it was given to that fool, Peter Anderson.
the new york times and he panned it right including milk i never got a handle on the story
What the hell are you doing reviewing it then?
He wrote you a book?
No, it was in the review.
That was a good book, wasn't it?
That was the one set right here in Boston.
It was set in the State House.
The State House.
The State House in western Massachusetts.
That was a nice book.
It was a wonderful book.
That all should have been amazing.
It should have been a full-time surprise winner.
Alison Lurie got it that year for a novel about an academic level for you.
I've met Alison Lurie.
Alison Lurie was on the board with John Irvin was denied that.
It was.
You got it exactly right.
It certainly wasn't.
God was inspired.
God was inspired, but they would never forgive him for those Ellen James and his son.
But that was true.
It was Mary Lee Semmel and Alison Lurie and Wallace Stegner.
That was the board.
You know, Wallace Stegner.
But not to deny, John, I have no trouble believing that the film change existed.
That's a fact.
And she did cut out her tongue.
Did everybody else?
But of course, in the book, they all followed her.
Some did.
There were some followers who did the same thing.
He did not.
He made it.
Exaggerated it.
That was satire.
That was sacrilege.
Of the most wonderful kind.
Because they saw themselves in this.
Of course.
Alison Lurie was in that Office USA show written 20 best novels by Americans published in Great Britain's and World Order.
I was on that tour.
It was great and fun.
It was well-ordered.
She got the Pulitzer then.
I'm 84.
What the hell is the question, bro?
It's always about an academic, poor little girl.
The love triangle on campus.
Who's he teaching?
Colgate or Cornell?
One of the things.
But then they're going to come to Cornell.
They're going to go to Cornell.
It's boring.
It is, it is nimble, but the trouble is I began to think that she is
putting on a freak show for the, the light of the room.
Where does she meet all these grotesques in the light she leaves?
And she's pooped out the boat, she never leaves the house.
Yeah, and why, another thing that did it to me too, when did she come out bragging on her book jackets that she graduated from, what was it, Duke or North Carolina?
She was 12 years old or something.
Who gives a chance?
She married an Indian psychiatrist or something.
Yeah.
And she's living a beamer life down in Baltimore, sheltered as can be.
And she's, actually, she's with a touring freak show.
The one that I've gone back to, and I change my reading list to be about every year or so, so I won't get bored.
What I've decided to do, I've excluded the plenary economy, is because of that damned orthographic dial.
She just goes into it with too much.
You can only do so much of that stuff, and sometimes I'm afraid I've overdone it by using IDNIT once.
But I've decided, if I say you can use the collective stories of Klan O'Connor after page 120, I'll be all right.
Because after that, she seemed to come to her senses.
And I like her as well.
She was ahead of her time.
What the British call bloody mind.
Hey, where the hell are we going?
I got a friend with a statement.
You may not get an article out of it.
That's going too far.
I said a long time ago that when I was in my 20s, I realized I'd never get a book published.
It was about then I had, I don't know, I wrote 14 before I was 12, but probably I had eight or nine rejected several times each, not both sides of the Atlantic.
And I can now say, and rightly so, because they weren't very good.
I thought that was your print as well.
Yes, it was.
And I'm grateful now that they weren't published, because they weren't any good.
They were stupid and they were good.
But now, I also... But you know, like John Grisham, who just dropped these things after success.
I saw mine in the dump.
You know how they've taken these books?
Yeah, but I saw mine in the dump.
When I got Eddie Coyle accepted, I took all my own manuscripts and threw them in the dump, and I watched them, and they said, here's where we begin.
And I watched the bull bulls, and it's falling under.
I really did that.
That's not absolute truth.
I had manuscripts in my house in Hingham, where I was living with my first wife, and I had manuscripts where it would grown up.
And I tracked them all down.
I think I got them all.
And I threw them in the Rockland dump, and as it happened, the bull bulls that came to prowl over the road, that
at the same time while I was there, and I watched them plowed under.
No, I'm not going to recycle them.
They don't exist.
What do you think of these authors without naming names like British?
I suppose I would do it.
I don't know.
I don't have the temptation because I removed the means to succumb to it.
And I did it deliberately because I realized that when
I finally got any quote accepted that I had been in that apprenticeship.
I had learned how to write.
And that's hard to do.
It's one of the hardest things we ever do.
We're born with
There is no innate talent for writing.
There are no Mozarts among writers, and I know of.
You have to learn the language from infancy.
You have to learn sequential reasoning.
And you have to learn some stories.
And what your high school teachers tell you, write about yourself, write about what you know.
It's boring shit.
You've got to learn some stories that are interesting.
And then you've got to learn a way to tell them.
Develop a style, in other words, with the language that you use.
And it takes a long time.
Nobody cares about your personal problems.
That's why I didn't want to talk about random house and my own shit.
Well, that's why I tell my kids.
A lot of guys out here are really hungry.
What I tell my students is, do not believe that you are the first person who ever discovered what's in your pants and what you can do with it.
I'm not interested in reading about it.
And you should also tell the students, I'm sure you do.
But you're paid to read what they write.
I think very well, too.
And I hope very well.
I am.
People out there, when you're writing for publication, they don't like it.
They don't like it.
They're gone.
They're out of there.
That's why I do tell the kids.
I completely have mad on the course.
First of all, you've got to read aloud from stuff on my list.
Make a selection, read aloud for 20 minutes, and discuss why, and then we all discuss why this works and why it didn't.
One of my favorites is Gage Elyse's name and it's jury.
Any selection out of that book.
Very useful.
It's a best book.
I think that's right.
To go Honour Thy Father is very good.
Honour Thy Father is the banana book.
The banana book.
That came after the New York Times book.
But it was, uh... But the one we was going all the way to was... I mean, I think it was... Don Aide's wife.
Yeah, and Nan didn't appreciate the fact that he was doing all that field work.
I interviewed them together on that book.
She was the focus.
You had a Kevlar vest on there, Sue.
Well, she'd be taught in the crowd.
She loved the peace.
Oh, man.
And in fact, she became a friend.
She seems like a very nice woman.
I've only known her from Tara's father.
She is, but she's, and this is, I'm going to put this off on the phone.
No, that's quite all right.
I just thought you were finished, but you thought it was on.
It's four Jerry Kennedys over 16 years, right?
I never know when he's going to report.
The Olympics, I mean, does he check in?
Yeah, but it's irregular though.
It's 1980, 1985.
Well, is he your rabbit?
Oh, yeah.
Yes, and that's overt.
That's intentional.
That's exactly what I intended to do with it.
I don't know what he'll report again.
That, like all my stories, they occur to me.
I can't make them occur.
When I try to force a story,
130 pages get done and then it goes in the attic.
I can't write it because the characters never come alive.
I just dumped a short story.
I could not get interested in this story of a young woman who didn't want to go to college and just wanted a job that would enable her to buy a cheap charity.
Her father's a cop and blah, blah, blah.
And she goes to work for a phone telemarketer.
And I say, you know, nobody's going to read this.
I don't even want to write it.
And that's a clear indication nobody's going to want to read it.
And I said, no.
I've written four short stories recently, which I find frightening, because I hadn't written a short story since 1988.
I think it's because that's when I started teaching.
The time between novels that I formally devoted to writing short stories, I have since been devoting to polishing my act of teaching.
And therefore to come back to it is somewhat reassuring.
Apparently now I think I've gotten enough of a handle on the teaching so I can spend some time writing short stories.
But it's always there very long.
The shortest one is 5,000 words.
I can't get them accepted.
Does teaching help you in your own writing?
Indirectly?
No, no.
It helps me indirectly by giving me an outlet.
Thank you.
they've gone to the they've lost the crust of plates though initially i objected to that then i decided change is enough please all of it i've often considered saying we never mind the steak and stuff we need a sauce of course uh
The teaching helps me because it gives me an outlet.
I spent one summer when I had consecutive deadlines within a month.
Thank you.
Yeah, the capers.
And I got agoraphobic.
I didn't get in here.
This was between boats.
And I was working like a bastard.
And I got so I didn't want to go out at all.
I didn't.
Not that far away.
I don't want that to happen again, and I dearly miss the trial course.
I miss what it was at the trial course.
You miss it terribly.
Less so, less so since I've tried to keep it.
I mean, so why did you read the thing?
Because my learned brothers in the Boston bar put it out that I quit practicing water right full time.
And I had a lot of competition to try cases.
And when that kind of practice on the street that you cook, you have.
But you don't get cases.
It was costing me $65,000 a year to run a very modest operation.
And I wasn't making it back in legal.
I wasn't breaking even.
So what I had done,
kept on with, to buffer the vicissitudes of the writing life and its ups and downs, is in fact exhausting the income that I was making from the writing life.
You said when you were a kid and you were convinced that you would never be public.
Was there ever a moment, I mean, like, is any quote on the last one?
Or do you think you're still going to be writing today, even at that time?
I know I would be.
You would be.
Yes, it's an obsession.
I also knew, and I knew I wouldn't be published, that if I ever was published, they'd never shut me up.
I think I'd be good on that.
So when you were a kid growing up, what was the dream?
To be a trial lawyer?
ever think of being a lawyer when I was growing up.
My father had me convinced I was going to be a medical doctor.
Good news for the sick people.
I was going to fuck organic chemistry and knew it and got out of it before they could want me.
Then I was going to be an English teacher in college, which would give me a salary I could write, used to write on.
I was going to get a PhD at Stanford.
I hated the place.
And they weren't sorry to see me leave.
You actually went out there?
I spent a year there.
I got my MA there.
Oh, you did?
Yes.
American what?
Yes, I know that.
When I got out of Stanford, I was 4F because of the bleeding ulcer I developed at Stanford.
I showed you how much I liked the place.
And so I didn't have to go to Vietnam, and that gave me a certain amount of freedom.
And I couldn't get a job.
What the hell do you do with a degree in English?
Two degrees in English.
J. Walter Thompson wouldn't take me.
The USIA wasn't interested.
The CIA wasn't interested.
I had no real language still.
If my father was going to get me teaching English, I know I've gone over this way.
And in horror, this was to be at Avon High School.
The principal over there was a portrait.
In horror, I got myself my own.
He didn't want me to work in a Coca-Cola, which is what I was doing then.
They wanted me to join their management program.
I often wonder what would have happened if I had gone to Atlanta.
I probably would have gotten fired.
I was an even mouthier kid than I am an adult.
So I went to work in a newspaper business.
And it was from the Providence Journal to the Associated Press in Springfield.
That's where I started watching the trials, because that was the big story.
And that's when I decided I wanted to be a trial lawyer.
But I was writing all the time.
The writing came first.
Always did.
I started when I was 15.
So you're really doing what you've always wanted to do.
I think I'm doing, this sounds awfully pretentious.
You probably shouldn't use it, but I really do think this is it.
I think I'm doing what I was put here to do.
I don't know if it's particularly important, but it is what I was put here to do.
I was a good trial lawyer, I think, every trial lawyer.
I couldn't try cases if I didn't.
But there are lots of good trial lawyers.
And I was a pretty good reporter.
and there are lots of good reporters.
But I think whatever small thing that I do that's in the picture, I don't think there's anybody who can do it better than that.
Not nowadays.
And that, too, is an example of a writerly humor.
You have to have a certain amount of, I suppose, ego.
Because it's an ego-battering job.
I got a story back from GQ today.
It's too long.
That's the problem with these new stories.
Informing me that they no longer accept unsolicited manuscripts.
George Higgins.
Well, I don't think the woman who wrote in Galera ever heard of him.
The guy who used to solicit stories from me is God.
He's an escort.
And he's not dealing with it.
But I'm setting an awful obstacle for myself because the story's 11,000 words.
That's a huge story.
It is.
But I can't tell it any shorter.
That's how long it takes for this character to reveal himself.
He doesn't know he's doing it.
At 11,000 words, that could almost be part of my novel.
What I have in mind to do is follow next year's novel, which is The Canterbury Tale.
What's the title of it?
Canterbury Tale.
I was going to use, it's set in Western Massachusetts, the pioneer valley.
I was going to use Carter, which I, I mean, you said it's a Canterbury Tale.
I thought it was a Canterbury Tale.
It is.
The name of the town is Canterbury.
But I didn't realize that that was the title.
I thought it was a tale.
Well, that's the name of it.
It had other titles.
But each time that my editor and I have referred to it as one of the Canterbury tale, we just decided to kind of give in because that's what the readers are going to do.
That's a great title.
And it stands.
I was going to use, as the locust of this town, as the name for this town, Cardiff, because I've used it before in Gary Kennedy novels, the Cardiff Depot.
I used it in Choice of Enemies.
It's a Massachusetts department of public workplace where all the equipment was stored in Western Massachusetts, and there was much thievery accomplished there.
The trouble is, I've made so many references to Cardiff that it would take me about a month and a half to catalog them all so I don't contradict myself with a new one, and I decide the sensible thing to do is change the name of this town.
Now, what am I going to do at this?
And I thought, why not Canterbury?
It's one of the answers.
All towns in my work are named for towns in England.
Guess where I got that idea?
Anyway, that's the way it came out.
And it's a long, long book.
It came out and dressed up to 249,000 words.
Jesus Christ.
Well, it's got to be... It's bigger than my book.
It's got to be... So I can tell you it is.
I'm sure it is.
It's too big.
I cut it a lot before I... No, it isn't.
We're going to bring that thing in under 500.
But it's... What I said earlier, I'm doing it...
to a lesson degree in Jerry Kennedy and Sandra Nichols.
I shouldn't be talking about next year's book.
No, but actually it sounds like it's pretty ambitious.
It is.
If I were cataloging my own stuff, this would be one of the big ones.
Sandra isn't.
Sandra's a very nice book.
It has a happy ending.
it's uh jerry is happy again for the first time in any of these books really since the first one i think that's why the reviewers and uh publishers weekly and everybody has liked the book because it's sort of nice that's the only word
Except, of course, the discovery of the body of the garbage bag.
That's another cause.
But it happens.
But this is, well, it's a good story.
That's what I try to write every time.
But now and then I attempt something more on the epic, a saga nature.
Enemies was the first one.
Outlaws.
Imposters.
And what one of my aficionados,
He was fairly well informed.
He says it's going to be known as my signature book, Palmer's Law.
I don't know where that came from.
Does that excite you, that prospect?
Yeah.
That's when I really push it.
When I get one of these big ones where I'm wrestling with huge thieves,
It excites me.
It's fun to write Sandra Nichols' books.
It's fun to read them, they're easy to do.
Because they are, it's okay.
But then you start tangling with something like this one.
The second lead character in Canterbury Tale, you notice a certain similarity between his life and his downfall.
and that of Charlie Clarity.
This will be the second time I got a little mining out of the Massachusetts House of Representatives.
Is this a book you have to be where you are in life in your 50s to write?
Yes.
I had the story of John Thompson when I was 24 years old, 23.
Because I interviewed him for the Providence Journal.
And I knew...
when I did it.
But I had my Dewey Long.
And this was why I knew it.
And I also knew I couldn't tell it.
And I didn't write that book until 1984, so that was, what, 12, 14 years later.
Do you have a sense of who your reader is?
Yeah.
Unfortunately, he's not too numerous.
He's a white male.
By now, he's... may very well be a...
Yeah, early retirement.
It's probably been fairly successful.
Kind of a prick.
Not really cranky, demanding.
Rigorous.
I've gotten a number of letters from retired Marine officers.
It does not surprise me.
I was never a Marine.
But I've known a good number from the state police.
And they colored my thinking so it doesn't surprise me that other Marines find it resonant.
Unfortunately, 70% of the people who buy books
are women.
So the best chance I have of selling books is to bring them out around Father's Day at Christmas.
Because these guys don't go to bookstores in general rule.
That's all you're going to get there.
Is there any way to combat that, or did you just stay the hell with it?
I've been trying to combat it now for 25 years.
I haven't figured out a way yet.
If you think of it, let me know, will you?
No.
I think there's any number of that.
The list of... I can't just say even the problems were testimonials to your work.
But really, these are not...
It's a significant name.
This ain't beanbag as Tip O'Neill said.
And I think those comments are sincere.
And if they aren't, I prefer to believe that.
What I'm saying is you have an unqualified admiration and respect of your peers.
Yeah, writer's writer.
Unfortunately, writers don't buy many books.
At least they don't seem to.
We're all trying to get copies.
But we get an autumn set to it.
Partly enough, though, very seldom of my set of books.
that I would really like to read.
The only exception I can think of recently is another guy.
Persistent obscurity, if that's a possible combination.
Charles McCary.
I don't know about that I missed that one if you get it the ones that got caught my attention with the tears of autumn and the Mernic dossier and the last supper that's right there was a quartet of books about the war in Vietnam despite all
Can't be his last name either.
Well, he wrote a book that came out a year ago.
Shelly's Heart.
An extraordinary piece of it.
I have a credit card.
Well, you're in for a treat.
Probably reading books is not your idea of a treat because that's what you do for a living.
It's like being a restaurant.
How the hell do you want to go out to dinner?
That's why I gave up reviewing television.
That in effect is what a damn little good television to do.
And what was the point of sitting there and belaboring the bad stuff?
But why isn't Charles McCary more popular?
He's a splendid writer.
He's a former CIA.
He never got to college.
He's an autodidact.
He's obviously steeped in the law, as we say, as they generally say about David Cornwall, and yet nobody buys his books.
He's allotera, without any questions.
I think we should point out that that's glad you're afraid.
It's not a question of global advising.
Look, John Fuger, I was enraged to see Joe Klein saying, if this book had sold 50,000 copies, his books routinely do, no one would have cared.
Well, I don't sell routinely 50,000 copies.
I don't even come close.
The most I would go see was 36,000, about.
You know, we've got to the point now, next to the line, if you print this instruction for me, I say it's all I want.
I haven't even had paperback hits in my last few books.
I say it's because Zebra and Penguin, Penguin said there was any clothes in print, but you couldn't get it.
Now, that won't do.
So I had no fewer than four.
which is not a great many, people who teach or were inventing courses in modern American fiction, whether it be the Chandler mode or whatever, in some cases not even the hard-boiled book, they wanted to include Eddie Coyle on their reading list.
Every one of those four teachers probably worth a hundred copies of that book and paperback, and they couldn't get it.
But they wouldn't say it was out of print so I could get the license back and sell it.
Now I have gotten it back, and I'll print it.
They'll do a nice job.
They've done a nice job.
It's a good job.
And it's the original plates from Bolt, so it's good-sized type.
Even guys are aging.
That's what they do, by the way.
Yep.
But the Bolt does.
Yeah.
They pick the plates.
Yeah, they pick up the plates from now.
Because we were talking about the paperbacks in my book.
There are a couple little errors in there.
Not big, but I'd like to go in his fix.
And they said, well, this is a big deal.
What do you mean it's a big deal?
I mean, it's a new deal.
Oh, we take the plates.
You know, I said, look, I've got a 1930.
It's got to be a 1919.
Yes, please do that.
No, I'm not going to do that yet.
Let me show you something.
Thank you.
If there's a way to drag my sleeve through something, I will do it.
Isn't it?
He had lunch over here, over there, which was Ben Bradley, and he brought along Tom Winship.
And while we were sitting there, John Harrington comes over because he spies.
And he's looking at me.
He's looking at him.
And Winship says immediately, oh.
Say hello to Ben Bradley, you know.
And Winship was the guy that came along on the invite.
And he was giving me this stuff.
Who is this guy?
Meeting me.
Who is this guy that rates this table in the corner with Bradley and Winship?
And then they introduced me, and he's looking at me.
And I wouldn't help him.
You know, I wouldn't help him out of it.
Like, you could have said, the other guy will let this go.
He's wondering, I could see in his mind, he's wondering who is this guy.
He's meaning me.
That is a hot shot.
It is.
I like the book a lot.
I read it.
I know him from a lot of good.
I enjoyed it.
And then I was asked to review it.
He said very nice things about you.
He won't now.
Because I was asked to review the book for the Daily Telegram.
And I read it critically.
And it's quite a different piece of work.
It stinks.
I first discovered this when I was reading it yes I know that I meant to do it that way I know what it's worth
I noticed, that's almost what I said.
I was reading aloud at the Marketplace Bookstore's May luncheon down at the Kuhner Messer Inn, and I came to that, and I almost threw it across the room and walked out.
Try and fix it, by the way.
Oh, I can't do it.
They always say that.
I'm going to even date it for you.
Date it and put it in what it should be.
Yes, of course.
All right.
And I will, by the way, I promise you, on the tape, I'm writing a monthly column for a new magazine called Biblio.
Who started that?
Somebody on the West Coast.
I'm going to start on the fourth level.